screenshots/README.md, before:

# screenshots

This is the e2e task that automatically collects screenshots of the UI.


## Overview

It runs as any other `Playwright` e2e test and uses a proper utility for each platform to
collect screenshots of the main sections of the UI. Screenshots are either produced in
light & dark mode.


## Prerequisites

### macOS

`screencapture` is required. It is part of the OS, so doesn't need to be installed
separately. See https://ss64.com/osx/screencapture.html

`GetWindowID` is also required, and can be installed running `brew install
smokris/getwindowid/getwindowid`.

If you're experiencing any issues like `screencapture: no file specified` or
`could not create image from window` while running the screenshots script, it's most
likely related to your privacy settings. Try to enable the 'Terminal' option at:
System Preferences -> Security & Privacy -> Privacy -> Screen Recording.

### Windows

We have custom scripting, but we must have PowerShell available in the `PATH`
(as `powershell`, not `pwsh`).  This should come as part of Windows.

Please note that we crop a full-screen screenshot, so any overlapping windows
will be visible.

### Linux

`gnome-screenshot` is required. See https://github.com/GNOME/gnome-screenshot

## Running

First, install dependencies with:

```
yarn
```

Make sure you have run a "Factory Reset" before capturing screenshots, so they show the
default settings and not your current configuration.

On macOS and Linux, after the "Factory Reset" run the app once manually (`yarn dev`)
to disable admin access. Otherwise the `screenshots` script will hang when the password
prompt comes up.

Then, capture screenshots in both dark & light mode:

```
yarn screenshots
```

Light mode only:

```
yarn screenshots:light
```

Dark mode only:

```
yarn screenshots:dark
```


## Environment Variables

- RD_MOCK_VERSION

  Customize the app version, this is useful for populating documentation before release
  activities are finalized.
  ```
  export RD_MOCK_VERSION=1.0.0; yarn screenshots
  ```

## Output

The directory where the screenshots are saved:

  ```
  screenshots/output
  ```

Commit message:

Screenshots: Update capturing
- On Windows, determine the window to capture using the window title,
  rather than the active window.  Sometimes we can end up with the wrong
  window being active, even with no human intervention (e.g. in CI).
- On Linux, manually walk the window tree to locate the window that is a
  child of the root window.  This ensures that we will capture any window
  frames correctly.  Also, switch to using GraphicsMagick instead of
  gnome-screenshot, because (at least in CI) we will not be in a full Gnome
  environment.
- Spawn commands as separate arguments rather than a single command line,
  to better handle things like spaces in file paths.
- Add some logging for the script, so that we can troubleshoot any errors
  in taking screenshots.
- Start Rancher Desktop with the test helper, rather than trying to run the
  command manually.  Note that we're not using the mock backend because we
  need to install extensions.

Signed-off-by: Mark Yen <mark.yen@suse.com>

screenshots/README.md, after:

# screenshots

This is the e2e task that automatically collects screenshots of the UI.


## Overview

It runs as any other `Playwright` e2e test and uses a proper utility for each platform to
collect screenshots of the main sections of the UI. Screenshots are either produced in
light & dark mode.


## Prerequisites

### macOS

`screencapture` is required. It is part of the OS, so doesn't need to be installed
separately. See https://ss64.com/osx/screencapture.html

`GetWindowID` is also required, and can be installed running `brew install
smokris/getwindowid/getwindowid`.

If you're experiencing any issues like `screencapture: no file specified` or
`could not create image from window` while running the screenshots script, it's most
likely related to your privacy settings. Try to enable the 'Terminal' option at:
System Preferences -> Security & Privacy -> Privacy -> Screen Recording.

### Windows

We have custom scripting, but we must have PowerShell available in the `PATH`
(as `powershell`, not `pwsh`).  This should come as part of Windows.

Please note that we crop a full-screen screenshot, so any overlapping windows
will be visible.

### Linux

`xwininfo` and `GraphicsMagick` are required.  The former may be in the `x11-utils` package.

## Running

First, install dependencies with:

```
yarn
```

Make sure you have run a "Factory Reset" before capturing screenshots, so they show the
default settings and not your current configuration.

On macOS and Linux, after the "Factory Reset" run the app once manually (`yarn dev`)
to disable admin access. Otherwise the `screenshots` script will hang when the password
prompt comes up.

Then, capture screenshots in both dark & light mode:

```
yarn screenshots
```

Light mode only:

```
yarn screenshots:light
```

Dark mode only:

```
yarn screenshots:dark
```


## Environment Variables

- RD_MOCK_VERSION

  Customize the app version, this is useful for populating documentation before release
  activities are finalized.
  ```
  export RD_MOCK_VERSION=1.0.0; yarn screenshots
  ```

## Output

The directory where the screenshots are saved:

  ```
  screenshots/output
  ```
